(DRAMATIC INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC)
SAM: Previously on
Battlestar Galactica.
I can't figure it.
All those weeks in detention
and then suddenly,
they let me out.
I want a specific place,
I want a specific time
for a very high-level meeting
of the insurgency leadership.
And if I don't get it,
we pick up Saul again,
and this time he'll lose
more than an eye.
DORAL: The child's life must
be protected at all costs.
D'ANNA:
The first Cylon-human hybrid.
It truly is
a miracle from God.
We lost her.
We did the best we could,
but she's dead
and that's all
there is to it.
She's so beautiful.
You understand, Maya, that this
adoption requires absolute secrecy.
You have my word.
TIGH: There's a Raptor
out there every day,
listening for
a wireless call,
and it's out there
because the old man
isn't just gonna
leave us to the Cylons!
"Will make contact this
frequency every 12 hours.
"Have hope.
We're coming for you. "
The Cylons have
removed launch keys
from grounded Colonial ships,
location unknown.
The best option is that Saul
and the people on the ground
get their hands on
the original launch keys.
DUALLA: The Admiral's decided
to put some boots on the ground.
He wants to send
an officer as a liaison
between us and
the resistance elements
on the planet to
coordinate the rescue op.
It makes sense.
What's the problem?
It's who he's sending.
This entire plan is
a reckless gamble.
You are risking the lives
of the entire human race.
You should make plans to
resume the search for Earth
with Pegasus and
the civilian fleet.
But I'm going back.
We round up the leaders of the
insurgency and we execute them publicly.
CAVIL: We round up at random groups
off the street and
we execute them publicly.
Send a message that the
gloves are coming off.
The insurgency stops now
or else we start reducing
the human population
to a more manageable size.
Let them stretch
their legs for a minute.
JAMMER:
All right, everybody out!
Five minute rest break!
Come on, move!
You, over here.
(PANTING)
Run.
Run, don't look back. Go!
(GASPING)
(FIRING)
ELLEN: Can I help you?
No.
ELLEN: There we go.
TIGH: Thanks.
Sorry. No, that's all
right. It doesn't hurt.
Now, I appreciate
you doing this.
I can't seem to get it
right in the mirror.
Saul.
I want you to know
that I would do
anything for you.
Yeah.
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
The list,
Cally's on the list.
They're gonna kill her.
What list?
What are you talking about?
I got this.
I got this from
the dead drop,
from the source in
the administration.
It's a death list and
Cally's name is on it.
They're rounding up
people in the city
and Cally's already
in the detention.
They could take her
out at any minute...
They've got this organized
by transport vehicles.
Cally's in a group heading
for map coordinate X-ray-7...
I know.
Where the frak is that?
I mean, how are we gonna...
Calm down, damn it!
You've got to start thinking
clearly, here, Chief, or she's dead.
Now, we've already figured out
their map coordinate system.
It's referred to in
the list of Cylon freqs
you got from
the last dead drop.
Holy frak, you're right.
I can extrapolate
the coordinate system...
TIGH: Cally's group has to pick up
a bunch of
people in town first.
That'll take time.
Take four men and get
there ahead of the trucks.
Chief! Pull it together.
You won't do her any good
if you get caught, too.
Besides, the last thing your son
wants is me and Ellen for parents.
Find that list, Chief.
(THEME MUSIC)
Frak! Where the frak
is it? I know it's...
Damn it!
Gods damn it!
Where's the frakking list?
Okay, it's gotta be in here.
It's gotta be.
What did I do with it?
That's it.
That's it, okay.
Where's the list?
(GASPING)
Damn it! Come on!
Here it is.
Okay, X-ray-7-1-4-3...
Hey, Chief.
Good day for a walk, huh?
TYROL: Get two men together.
We're going to
Pergamus Flats.
Talk to me, Gunny.
I don't like it, Eltee.
Too much cover
along this trail.
We could catch enfilade fire from
there, there, and along there.
Let's move out.
I'm going to
the rendezvous point.
Place your men on
the ridge for cover.
Go, Panthers!
C- Bucks rule!
Hey, Sam,
it's been a while.
Funny, I feel like
I see you every day.
Come on.
TYROL: There's trucks.
Tell him to move
down to the ridge.
Move down to the ridge.
Crispick, did you hear?
This is it.
Lock and load.
All right, what do we see?
TYROL: Oh, frak me.
SEELIX: What?
They've got Laura Roslin
and Tom Zarek with them.
Is there any sign of Cally?
Not yet.
All right, so Galactica's got a
rescue plan in place and ready to go.
My job is to get
the launch keys
for the civilian ships
still on the ground
and then coordinate the rescue
mission with your evacuation plan.
When can we meet
with Colonel Tigh?
We're gonna wait
until nightfall
before we head
back into the city.
Oh, there she is.
There she is.
Oh, my Gods, there she is.
What the frak's she doing?
She's making a run for it.
The bulletheads
are lining up.
TYROL: It's a firing squad.
Sight in on the Centurions,
right now.
Cally's right in
the line of fire.
If we shoot,
we're gonna hit her.
Then count to
five and open fire.
CHEADLE: Two skin jobs.
Should we take them down?
MATHIAS: Where there are skin
jobs, there are bulletheads.
Bring up the RPG.
(MECHANICAL HUMMING) SAM: Now,
there's a system of tunnels
we've been using
that run parallel to the...
(SHUSHING)
You hear that?
SAM: Go! Go! Move!
MAN: Get down there!
ATHENA: Don't stay!
Everyone get out!
Go! Go! Go! Go!
Get in line
behind the tree line!
One thousand one,
one thousand two,
one thousand three,
one thousand four,
one thousand five...
MAN 1: Get down! Go!
MAN 2:
Behind the trees!
(FIRING CONTINUES)
Frak this.
We've got to get out of here.
Stay put. Trust me.
MATHIAS: Now.
Thanks.
(GASPING)
(SHUSHING)
They were waiting for us,
Eltee, right where we thought.
CONNOR: Sam, you'd better
take a look at this.
I found it on
a dead skin job.
It's your handwriting,
isn't it?
Yeah,
you're damn right it is.
(PANTING) SAM:
We were sold out.
Ellen.
INSURGENT: Check them out.
Make sure they're okay.
You all right, Tom?
Yeah.
It's been a while since I had
a woman throw me to the ground.
Not quite as much
fun as I remember.
(MOANS)
It hurts, huh? Good.
And I hope it hurts
a long, long time
until you go to
Download City.
You all right down there?
Oh, my Gods!
It's good to see you, Chief.
It's good to see
you too, ma'am.
What happens now?
Where do we go from here?
We're going home.
Admiral Adama's on his way.
We're getting off this rock,
we're going back to Galactica.
(BABY CRYING)
Don't worry about it, Gaius.
It's all right.
It doesn't matter
to me, really.
You can stop that
right now, okay?
My ego's not so
fragile as all that.
These things happen
or they don't happen.
(SIGHS)
So what shall we talk about?
Shall we talk
about your day?
How was your day, darling?
How was your day
at the office?
My office.
Any news?
No?
Well, let me tell you
about my day,
because it was a hoot.
I had the most fascinating
chat with one of the Dorals.
He's got this theory about
sanitation being the key
to regaining human
trust and confidence,
something about
toilet paper.
No, lack of toilet paper,
that's it.
How if people could only
wipe their bums properly,
there'd be a measurable
up-tick in the polls.
Four months of this, Gaius.
Four months I'm watching
you slip further and further
down into this well
of self-hatred and loathing.
Do you know what
I've given up for you?
Do you?
Gee, dear, what with the
occupation and everything,
I can't really say I've given
it that much thought recently.
Don't go.
Please.
It doesn't look so bad.
Hey, there's something
that I wanted to say to you.
I'm sorry that
I left you alone.
I didn't mean
for you to get hurt.
I was upset with
myself and not you, okay?
(CLEARS THROAT) Grown-ups
do stupid things sometimes.
We get caught up in our own little
world until it's almost too late.
(DOOR CLOSES)
You have no idea what
I'm saying to you, do you?
Okay, time to take a nap.
(CHIMES TINKLING)
Don't be afraid. I know
who you are, what you are.
Poor thing.
You must be terrified.
Do you have any candy?
Candy?
No.
Kamala's so bitter.
Oh, Zeus sees all.
Sees you, Number Three.
Sees your pain,
your destiny.
All the Gods weep for you.
There is no Zeus.
No other God but God.
Well, you don't
believe that anymore.
You don't know what you believe
and that is why you're here.
It's not true.
I don't even know
why I'm here.
This is the stupidest thing
I ever did.
It is your dream
that brings you to me.
How do you know about that?
I have a message for you
from the one you worship.
He speaks through me to you,
just as he speaks
in your dreams.
The message is,
the fruit born of
two peoples is alive.
A child named after
the wife and sister
of the all-knowing Zeus,
Hera, lives.
It's not true.
The child is dead.
You will hold her
in your arms
and you'll know
for the first time
what it is to feel true love,
but you'll lose everything
you've done here.
Wish I had some
chocolate caramels.
Let's move! We've got some people
waiting for their ride down there!
Will you quit
looking at me like that?
Like what?
You know "like what. "
Like we're never gonna
see each other again?
We will.
It's a good plan, Dee.
Take care of the Admiral.
Take care of his son.
HELO: All right, people,
you know how this works.
Pegasus crew on the port side
of the line,
Galactica on the right.
RACETRACK: "Their
enemies will divide them,
"their colonies broken
in the fiery chasm of space.
"Their shining days renounced by
a multitude of dark sacrifices.
"Yet still they will remain,
always together. "
ALL: Always together.
CREWMAN 1: See you
at the rendezvous point.
CREWMAN 2: You'd better.
CREWMAN 3: Hang onto this
until we get out of this...
CREWMAN 4: I'll be back
before you know it.
CREWMAN 5: See you
on the other side, man.
CREWMAN 6:
I'll hold you to that.
CREWMAN 7: I'll see you.
CREWMAN 8: I'll see you...
CREWMAN 9: May the Gods...
That's the third time you've
taken a look at your watch.
Got dinner plans?
(LAUGHING)
No, I'm just...
I was just thinking Sharon's
probably on the ground by now.
I know.
These are your orders.
You'll find
the rendezvous point there.
Take the civilian fleet,
wait for me for 18 hours.
If I'm not back in
18 hours, then find Earth.
Yeah, right.
I'll see you at
the rendezvous point.
Eighteen hours.
Try not to be late.
I'm getting old
and I'm a little slow.
But I'll be there.
Gods, I wish I could
talk you out of this.
You can't.
You tried.
You know, Dad...
Don't.
Don't make me cry on
my own hangar deck.
(SIGHS)
See you there.
Permission to leave
your ship, Admiral.
Permission granted,
Commander.
Attention!
Commander of Pegasus,
departing.
Eighteen hours.
(DOG BARKING)
Hey, Jake. Hey, Jake.
Yeah, you don't
care who I am, do you?
We're all God's
creatures in your eyes.
Here you go.
Good boy.
Can't sleep?
Bad dreams.
I didn't know you
people had dreams.
Oh, sure.
Yeah, everybody dreams, Doc.
Is that human
or Cylon blood?
Cylon.
One of the Fives got pretty
shot up today by the insurgents.
He's gonna make it.
You could have
let him suffer.
It's not what I do.
What about the baby?
Sharon's baby, Hera?
When that child
died on Galactica,
why did you
cremate the body?
It's the first
Cylon-human hybrid
and you threw it
in the incinerator?
Oh, it wasn't my decision.
That was
the president's call.
I was just following orders.
That's a very funny thing.
Because this stuff
all looks the same.
She said,
"I hope it hurts you for a long, long
time before you go to Download City. "
And then
they just left me there.
They left me in the hot sun
with a bullet in my guts.
What a noble race you are.
BOOMER: How long were
you there before you died?
CAVIL: Hours.
Eventually,
I managed to drag myself
over to some
spent shell casings
and I used one of those to
scratch open my carotid artery.
Skin is a lot tougher
than you think.
Now that's three for me,
three downloads.
The first one I just got a
headache, but I could handle it.
Now it's worse and worse.
This time it was like
a frakking white-hot poker
through my skull.
It's not worth it.
None of this is worth it.
He's right, you know.
It's not worth it,
which is what I believe I've
been telling you all along.
Caprica,
can you please control him...
Why don't you just shoot me
if that would
remedy the situation?
DORAL:
We need to crack down harder.
How?
Our resources are stretched
to the max already.
I don't need to
listen to this anymore.
Consensus used to be so easy.
Now look what
they've done to us.
But don't lose hope.
Worse comes to worst, we can always
nuke the city and be done with it.
You'd better leave
those dog-tags here.
If they spot them,
they'll know who you are.
No. You have no idea
how hard I worked for these.
So, our best guess
puts the launch keys
somewhere in
the detention center.
Now just keep to
the main streets, okay?
Everybody will think you're
just a regular skin job
and they'll avoid you,
but there's a lot of
people out there looking
to gut an unwary
Cylon going for a stroll,
so don't let anybody get close
enough to stick a knife in you.
All right,
thanks for the concern.
Makes me feel all
warm and fuzzy inside.
How are you gonna
find those launch keys?
When I get inside and
hook into the data stream,
it'll feed me the location.
And once I get the keys, you need
to distribute them to the pilots
who can fly those
ships out of here.
We're already on it.
We've got pilots standing by.
CONNOR: Anders?
MAN: Hey...
SAM: Yeah, come in.
My Gods,
what is she doing here?
Get her down below
and you keep her there
until after the next briefing.
ELLEN: Wait a minute.
No, no. No, wait. Listen to
me please. I can explain...
SAM: Now, I suggest
you keep your mouth shut.
ELLEN: Where is my husband?
I want to speak
to my husband.
SAM: Connor, let's go.
Get her down.
Come on.
Okay, I'm out of here.
SAM: Wait, Sharon...
Yeah.
Do me a favor and just keep
an eye out for Starbuck.
I don't know if she's
alive or if she's dead,
but it's been four months.
I'll do what I can.
Yeah.
ROSLIN: You must keep the
child hidden at all costs.
SAM: We keep her on the move,
along with other high-value targets.
She'll never stay
in any one location
longer than two
or three days.
Sam, I need you to
really hear me on this.
Really.
There is no one, no one, of higher
value than Maya and her child.
We cannot let them
fall into Cylon hands.
I get it.
How far do you
want me to go?
I mean, if it looks like the
Cylons are gonna capture them...
No,
don't let it get to
that point. That's all.
I don't suppose you're gonna
tell me what this is all about.
I mean, what's so
important about this kid?
She may very well be the
shape of things to come.
That's either
a blessing or a curse.
(SHUSHING) I know.
(BABY CRYING)
TYROL: We've stored
arms and munitions
at key areas
throughout the city.
MATHIAS: I can supplement
that with mortars, RPGs,
even a few shoulder-mounted
anti-aircraft missiles aboard the Raptor.
Great.
So, when we give the signal, our
people are gonna attack the airbase,
the detention center,
the power station,
and other
critical facilities.
The plan is to sow as much
chaos and confusion as possible
the moment Galactica
and Pegasus arrive.
That should help
cover the evacuation.
No Pegasus.
Just Galactica.
Why? Why no Pegasus?
What happened?
I don't know, sir.
Way beyond my pay grade.
What about your evac plan?
We've designated and
assigned 500 block captains
to cover each
sector of the city.
Each block captain
is responsible
for rallying and
guiding the people
in his or her sector along their
escape route to their designated ship.
I don't suppose you've been
able to rehearse any of this?
Indeed. We've had three
full dress rehearsals
under the guise of fire
and natural disaster drills.
MATHIAS: It'll be different
when the balloon goes up.
Explosions, shooting, chaos, there's
gonna be some panic out there.
ROSLIN: They'll do fine. These
people know that at some point,
they're gonna have to be
responsible for saving themselves.
All we need to do is be ready
and hope for the best.
What about Maya and Isis?
I'm on it.
I've got my two
best shooters here,
they're gonna
be their escorts
and make sure they get
back to the ship.
Gentlemen, I can't tell you
why, but it is imperative
that this woman and her child
get off this planet.
I trust you
because I trust him.
Yes, ma'am.
Saul!
We need to talk.
RESIDENT: Toaster.
SAM: She sold us out.
What are you talking about?
That's a lie.
We were ambushed
at the rendezvous.
The Cylons knew exactly
where we were gonna be.
Well, that doesn't mean
Ellen... I didn't do anything!
This is the map, Colonel!
The map that I drew for you.
I gave this to you
in your tent.
You were gonna burn it, but then
your wife offered to do it for you.
I got it off a dead
skin job at the ambush.
Do the math!
I want to explain, Saul...
Gods-damn traitor...
Shut your frakking mouth!
He said...
He said he'd kill you.
Who said it?
One of the Brother Cavils.
I did it for you, Saul.
It was all for you,
I had to.
I didn't have any choice.
Don't you see that?
Drawer 378.
What are you doing?
Oh, my God, it's you.
You're betraying
your own people.
For what?
I'm a Colonial Officer now.
You're not one of them.
I gave them my word.
Now that's not what counts.
It's who you give it to.
I'm gonna have
to shoot you now.
Hera lives.
What?
Your daughter Hera is alive.
Didn't your friends
tell you that?
They faked her death
and they hid her from you.
You would say anything.
No, I had dreams.
I had strange dreams.
I was having strange dreams
that made me question my faith,
made me question God.
And in the dreams
there was a human oracle,
so I went
to see Dodona Selloi.
I'm not gonna kill you,
but I'm gonna wound you
so you can't warn the others.
The oracle said that the
fruit born of two peoples
is still alive,
that Hera lives and I
would hold her in my arms
and I would know
true love.
Put down the gun
and when I find her,
you can hold her, too.
(GRUNTS)
Adama wouldn't lie to me.
You're wrong. You're wrong!
The launch keys don't seem
to have been damaged.
And from all the data points,
it looks like the ships
all still have enough tylium
to make at least one jump.
Congratulations, by the way.
I heard it's a boy.
What's his name?
Nicholas,
after Cally's grandfather.
Hey, Chief,
you know when you helped Helo
spread Hera's ashes?
Mmm-hmm.
You actually saw the ashes?
Yeah, of course. Why?
Nothing.
Just make sure Cally never
lets her kid out of her sight.
Sir, the listening
Raptor just jumped back.
Sharon's got the launch keys.
(PHONE RINGING)
Rec room, Racetrack.
Very well, sir.
It's on.
This is the Admiral.
You've heard the news.
You know the mission.
You should also know there's only
one way that this mission ends,
and that's with the
successful rescue of our people
off of New Caprica.
Look around you.
Take a good look
at the men and women
that stand next to you.
Remember their faces.
For one day you will tell your
children and your grandchildren
that you served
with such men and women
as the universe
has never seen.
And together,
you accomplished a feat
that will be told and retold
down through the ages
and find immortality,
as only the Gods once knew.
I'm proud to serve with you.
Good hunting.
Begin jump prep.
Action stations.
HELO: Set Condition One
throughout the ship.
Stand by for combat jump.
(CREW CHATTERING)
(THEME MUSIC)